The next thing we're gonna do is
introduce what I call a transform.
And this is not a formalized
GraphQL concept, but
I think every codebase of the kind that
we're building here today involves
something like this and it's nice
to sort of put it all in one place.
What I mean when I say transform, it's
something that converts from the database
representation of an entity to
the GraphQL representation of the entity.
Just think of it as, if there were private
data on a field or a slight difference
in naming and I think we have one in
our app, where the database thinks.
A tweet has a field called
message by the GraphQL schema,
if I recall, calls it body.
So that it's just we need to
do a little mapping here.
These are just very simple back
end front end mapping functions.
And they shouldn't do much more than that.
Because often you need to
reuse these over and over.
So I'm gonna call this transforms.ts just
create a new module for this purpose and
we will introduce our first transform
here and this is for a tweet.
So let me grab the code for that.
>> Someone in Chad mentioned
the adapter pattern
>> The adapter pattern, yes,
we have some fans of the Gang
of Four book in chat.
This is a yeah,
I guess it could be considered an adapter.
When I think about the adapter design
pattern that's usually something that
plugs into a larger object where you're
not using the adapter directly but
you provide it.
It's kind of related to
the strategy pattern.
So a cleaner example of the adapter
pattern might be in our Apollo server
when we're loading a schema.
There is this pluggable file loader thing,
that we can give this load
schema sync function, we don't know
what load schema sync is doing, but
based on which type of file we're loading,
there's a different adapter that we
can provide, on a per file type basis.
But we're we're never
invoking this thing directly,
that's kind of what I think
of when I think adapter.
All right, let's create our first
transform, sorry let me reorganize my
windows here because I keep
sliding back to that other one.
There we go, perfect.
So, here we go.
This is going to transform a tweet,
we'll take a database
representation of the tweet,
its database representation because
the type begins with DB right there.
And what do we omit a tweet which
is part of our generated code.
So we know that this is
a GraphQL entity of some kind.
And we're omitting a field called author,
why?
Because authors are related record
that's a field of type user and
that's going to require its own transform,
right?
We don't want this thing to do
anything more than transforming sort
of the most basic and
primitive data that relates to a tweet.
So let's grab this whole thing,
drop it in that newly created file.
And we see an error up here.
That means we've kind of
need to rerun our code gen.
Remember we've touched our resolver.
So we're gonna need to build
up our representation of
the GraphQL schema and TypeScript.
I'm being lazy here.
All right,
new types came in error went away.
We are good to go.
Here's an example of a nice
little mapping here.
That's kind of important.
Body versus message,
this is a good time to do that.
And there might be things on this
that we don't want to pass through.
Cool so there's our transform,
next we're going to want to import
this into our query resolvers,
and we're gonna create
a tweets resolver function
So let's go to our query resolver,
add this import,
and then we will get our
tweets resolver function.
And here it is.
We'll just add it right
here below suggestions.
All right, now I'm just to be safe I
see that es Lint is bugging me here.
I think it's probably just not caught up
with the latest changes to the types.
I'm gonna restart es lint real quick.
And we'll see if things go away.
Seems good.
All right, let's talk about like,
what does this code mean, right?
We just pasted a bunch of stuff in here.
I want you to understand what's going on.
So first off, this is a resolver and
this is a good time for
us to talk about the three arguments
that a resolver is passed.
This here is known as the parent.
When we get into cascading in resolvers,
right?
Like the idea of tweets have an author and
we resolve the tweet and
then we have to go deeper to resolve
the author, this will become more clear,
but just think of it as like we're
at the top level here, right?
We're right in this query resolver here,
so
parent isn't going to be especially
useful for us in this context.
We're right up at the top.
There is no useful parent for us.
This argument here is aggs.
This is where if we accepted parameters
here which we will get to soon.
This is where we would
find those parameters.
Like if I was requesting one tweet,
and I needed to provide a tweet ID, or
the Favorites associated
with a particular user,
this is where I would get my user ID.
It's where those arguments come in.
And then this of course,
is the context object.
This is where we can hang useful things,
and it's this little
scratch area that,
because of the way we've used context,
we've defined context with the function,
right?
By that I mean this function here, right?
We're gonna get an this function invoked
every time a request comes in we'll get
a fresh empty area,
we can put whatever we want in there and
then once things
are returned to the client.
That goes away, we start fresh next time.
So those are the things
that our resolvers pass.
Now what are we doing here?
While we're calling db.get all users and
we're iterating over all of the users and
we're putting them into a cache, why?
Because as we're assembling this list of
tweets, we're gonna have to go and look up
the list of authors and we can very easily
just sort of like put them in memory.
And then sorted out down the road
without having to hit our database.
Now you could query your database,
each and every time but
I would advise against that.
In a more realistic scenario, what you
would probably do is retrieve your tweets,
get the list of user IDs associated
with the authors of those tweets.
And then prime your cache with
that subset of users, right?
But it's often way cheaper
to make that one query,
where you're getting a collection of
things back, rather than a bunch of
little tiny queries in a loop because
just like that, without I mean,
it's just a lot of round trips and even
worse if you're doing them sequentially.
All right, so here,
DB two favorite count map.
So, in our database we have
a concept of favorites.
Let me look at my schema.Graph QL.
We have not defined a favorite type here,
but just think of this for
now as a many to many relationship
between users and tweets, right?
Tweets can have many
people who've liked them.
Users can like many tweets, many to many.
So it's sort of you may have heard
of this concept of a join table.
This is like a record in a join table.
Just think of it as like add something
that holds a tweet ID and a user ID,
let me show you what this looks
like in the database, here you go.
Tweet ID, user ID some timestamps and
an ID in and
of itself like that's it's just sort
of an edge in our graph, so to speak.
Now, we still in order
to get our stats right?
In order to produce this object,
even though we're not exposing favorites
as an entity through our API yet,
we're still gonna need to count them
to complete this part of the exercise.
And we need to just come up
with the right integer for now.
So we're getting all of the favourites.
And then we are getting the current count,
right?
If there's an existing
count in this map for
the tweet ID,
we use that otherwise we start at 0.
And then we increment the count by 1,
and put it back into the map.
So effectively this map
starts out as empty.
And then we're counting starting at 0.
And so eventually,
any tweet that has likes of any kind,
that will show up in this map.
So I have tweet IDs and then a number.
All right, then we're gonna grab all
the tweets, we're gonna map over them,
we're going to cache them, and
then transform them and return them.
So ultimately what we're gonna
end up returning is the Graph QL
representation of a tweet and
we will have cached information about
how many favorites each tweet has
all the users and all the tweets.
Let's see what happens.
So I'm gonna go to my dev tools here and
let me clear this out.
Start fresh, note that Apollo studio has
It is hitting pulling your API every so
often and
it's already picked up on the fact that
tweets is a new query that's available.
So just click this and
what do we want here we want a body and
then author, name,
handle something like that.
Let's run this.
all right, so, we've got the body.
Great, I see a lot of different body here.
A lot of different tweets, author is no.
And the reason it's no is because we
haven't done anything with author yet.
And it's a nullable type so this is fine.
Now there are two things that we
could do in order to make this work.
We could either in here as
we're transforming this,
we could say like author
let's do this just for fun.
This is temporary code so
don't bother to copy this in here.
So I'm going to borrow the code from
our current user resolver just so
we have access to this
first user I could do this.
Unreachable code detected because
I don't want to return the first.
User this is es lint complaining again
I'm just going to bump it restarted.
Okay, so Let's spread properties and
I promise
I'm using the right version of node
here all right we can make this happy.
Fine, if you want me to do it the old way,
I can do it the old way.
Object design.
So if we save this we're effectively
merging these two objects together.
Let's see what Graph QL is the studio
says hey look at that authors coming in.
So one option we have is to eagerly
populate this thing as we're
deserializing, this tweet object.
But let's say that we don't want to do
this because this would mean even if
you didn't ask for it, depending on
whether the query is requesting this
particular field,
it would either be dropped away or kept.
But let's say that we want to
refrain from doing that extra work,
unless we really need it.
So I'm going to backup here.
To this point and this is where we
should see a no again and we do.